README.md, before:

# check_haproxy Nagios Check Script

This is a Nagios plugin to check the status of HAProxy over a socket connection
(by default, /var/run/haproxy.sock) and parse the statistics to ensure that it
is operating within accepted limits, as per the defaults, or as set for each
frontend/backend.

## Usage

    check_haproxy [--defaults (defaults)] [--overrides (1 2 ... n)]
      [--[no]frontends] [--[no]backends] [--[no]servers]
      [--socket (path)] [--help]

### -f, --[no]frontends

Enable/disable checks for the frontends in HAProxy (that they're marked as OPEN
and the session limits haven't been reached).

### -b, --[no]backends

Enable/disable checks for the backends in HAProxy (that they have the required
quorum of servers, and that the session limits haven't been reached).

### -s, --[no]servers

Enable/disable checks for the servers in HAProxy (that they haven't reached the
limits for the sessions or for queues).

### -D, --defaults (defaults)

Set/Override the defaults which will be applied to all checks (unless
specifically set by --overrides). Takes the form:

    {u,d,x},{svr_warn},{svr_crit},{sess_warn},{sess_crit}

Each of these is optional, but the positioning is important. To fully override,
set (for example):

    u,10,5,25,50

which means:

  * `u`: Check for servers up (`u`) or servers down (`d`), or disable all checks
    on that particular frontend/backend (`x`).
  * `10`: WARNING if less than 10 servers are up, or if at least that many
    servers are down.
  * `5`: CRITICAL if less than 5 servers are available, or if at least that
    many have gone away.
  * `25`: WARNING if more any frontend, backend, or individual server has gone
    over 25% of it's maximum allowed sessions (or any queue for any server on
    the backend is at least 25% full).
  * `50`: CRITICAL for the same reasons as previous, but we've reached 50% of
    these levels.

To override only some of these values from the pre-set defaults
(`u,5,2,75,90`), simply leave the others as empty, for example: `,10,7` will
leave checks as up, but increase the server WARN/CRIT to 10/7. or to switch to
use down, use `d,`, or off with `x`.

### -O, --overrides (override override ... override)

Override the defaults for a particular frontend or backend, in the form
`name:override`, where `override` is the same format as `--defaults` above. For
example, to override the frontend called "api" and allow that to increase to
limits of 15/10 for WARN/CRIT, use `api:,15,10`. Add as many as you like as
space-delimited options:

    --overrides api:,15,10 assets:d,2,5 webmail:u,3,2

### -S, --socket /path/to/socket

Path to the socket `check_haproxy` should connect to (requires read/write
permissions and must be at least user level; no operator or admin privileges
needed).

### -v, --verbose

By default, the check will return on the first issue found. Enable verbose mode
in order to return details on all issues found.

## Licence

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.

Commit message:

Update readme with new limits arg.

README.md, after:

# check_haproxy Nagios Check Script

This is a Nagios plugin to check the status of HAProxy over a socket connection
(by default, /var/run/haproxy.sock) and parse the statistics to ensure that it
is operating within accepted limits, as per the defaults, or as set for each
frontend/backend.

## Usage

    check_haproxy [--defaults (defaults)] [--overrides (1 2 ... n)]
      [--[no]frontends] [--[no]backends] [--[no]servers]
      [--socket (path)] [--help]

### -f, --[no]frontends

Enable/disable checks for the frontends in HAProxy (that they're marked as OPEN
and the session limits haven't been reached).

### -b, --[no]backends

Enable/disable checks for the backends in HAProxy (that they have the required
quorum of servers, and that the session limits haven't been reached).

### -s, --[no]servers

Enable/disable checks for the servers in HAProxy (that they haven't reached the
limits for the sessions or for queues).

### -l --[no]limits

Enable/disable checks that the limits on sessions and queues haven't been reached.

### -D, --defaults (defaults)

Set/Override the defaults which will be applied to all checks (unless
specifically set by --overrides). Takes the form:

    {u,d,x},{svr_warn},{svr_crit},{sess_warn},{sess_crit}

Each of these is optional, but the positioning is important. To fully override,
set (for example):

    u,10,5,25,50

which means:

  * `u`: Check for servers up (`u`) or servers down (`d`), or disable all checks
    on that particular frontend/backend (`x`).
  * `10`: WARNING if less than 10 servers are up, or if at least that many
    servers are down.
  * `5`: CRITICAL if less than 5 servers are available, or if at least that
    many have gone away.
  * `25`: WARNING if more any frontend, backend, or individual server has gone
    over 25% of it's maximum allowed sessions (or any queue for any server on
    the backend is at least 25% full).
  * `50`: CRITICAL for the same reasons as previous, but we've reached 50% of
    these levels.

To override only some of these values from the pre-set defaults
(`u,5,2,75,90`), simply leave the others as empty, for example: `,10,7` will
leave checks as up, but increase the server WARN/CRIT to 10/7. or to switch to
use down, use `d,`, or off with `x`.

### -O, --overrides (override override ... override)

Override the defaults for a particular frontend or backend, in the form
`name:override`, where `override` is the same format as `--defaults` above. For
example, to override the frontend called "api" and allow that to increase to
limits of 15/10 for WARN/CRIT, use `api:,15,10`. Add as many as you like as
space-delimited options:

    --overrides api:,15,10 assets:d,2,5 webmail:u,3,2

### -S, --socket /path/to/socket

Path to the socket `check_haproxy` should connect to (requires read/write
permissions and must be at least user level; no operator or admin privileges
needed).

### -v, --verbose

By default, the check will return on the first issue found. Enable verbose mode
in order to return details on all issues found.

## Licence

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License
as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2
of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301, USA.
